# Module 5: Administering and troubleshooting Skype for Business and Teams
# Lab: Administering Skype for Business Online and Teams

### Scenario

 As part of the Office 365 implementation, A. Datum wants to use Skype for Business Online to provide IM and online conferencing. However, as they have been informed about future platform migration to Microsoft Teams, they also want to evaluate Teams collaboration platform. You need to ensure that you can configure the Skype for Business Online and Teams service settings and user settings to meet company requirements.


### Objectives

 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure and administer Skype for Business Online and Teams organization settings.

- Configure and administer Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings.

- Troubleshoot Skype for Business Online.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup

 Estimated time: 45 minutes

Virtual machines:  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**,  **10997B-LON-DC1**,  **10997B-LON-DS1**,  **10997B-LON-CL1**, and  **10997B-LON-CL2**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, click  **Start**, point to  **Administrative Tools**, and then click  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

4. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10997B-LON-DC1**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

5. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

6. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

7. Repeat steps 4 through 6 for  **10997B-LON-DS1**.

8. Repeat steps 4 and 5 on  **10997B-LON-CL1**, and then sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Holly**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

9. Repeat steps 4 and 5 on  **10997B-LON-CL2**, and then sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Ada**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number, that you choose in Lab 1 - Exercise 1, Task 1.

>  **Note:** If you see the **Update your admin contact info** prompt at any time during the lab, click **Cancel** to continue.


## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online and Teams organization settings

### Scenario

 A. Datum must ensure that internal users can communicate with some external users, but the company also wants the option to block communication with some specified domains. A. Datum also wants to customize the default meeting page to provide company-specific information for both Skype for Business and Teams. They also want to create custom meeting policy for Teams. You must configure the required settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell

2. Connect to Skype for Business by using Windows PowerShell

3. Configure settings for Skype for Business Online and Teams

4. Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams and Skype

5. Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Skype and Teams



#### Task 1: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, connect to  [**http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688).

2. Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell.

3. Restart when prompted.

4. Sign in as Adatum\Holly.



#### Task 2: Connect to Skype for Business by using Windows PowerShell

1. On  **LON-CL1**, connect to Skype for Business Online by running the following commands in Windows PowerShell. Use Holly's credentials to connect:

```
$msolcred = Get-Credential
$SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $msolcred
Import-PSSession $SfBSession
```

>  **Note:** If you receive an error, repeat the previous task by downloading and installing the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell. You do not need to restart. Then, start this task from step 1.


#### Task 3: Configure settings for Skype for Business Online and Teams

1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Windows PowerShell to configure the following:
- Enable the privacy mode by using the  **Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-EnablePrivacyMode*** parameter.
- Disable push notifications for Apple devices by using the  **Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-EnableApplePushNotification*** parameter.
- Verify the privacy and push notification settings by running the  **Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration** and **Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration** cmdlets.
- Allow users to communicate with public Skype users by using the  **Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-AllowPublicUsers*** parameter.
- Allow users to communicate with federated partners by using the  **Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-AllowFederatedUsers*** parameter.

2. Use the following commands to enable communication with all federated partners except for  **litware.com**:

```
$AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
$BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
```

3. Verify the change with PowerShell, by running the following command:

```
Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
```

4. Run the following command to end your PowerShell session:

```
Remove-PSSession $SfBSession
```

5. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

6. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** by using Holly's password.

7. In the  **Teams admin center**, open **Legacy Portal**, and verify the following settings:

  - Privacy mode is set to display presence information only to a user's contacts.
  - **Apple Push Notification Service** is not enabled.
  - External communications are enabled for all domains except for  **litware.com**.

8. In **Microsoft Teams admin center**, verify setting for external access and litware.com domain.
9. Configure Teams and Skype coexistence to work in Islands mode.
10. Create new meeting policy. Name it **Adatum Teams meeting policy**. In this policy, allow transcription, reduce sharing to single application, and allow external participants to give or request control. Save the policy.



#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams and Skype

1. Use Microsoft Teams admin center to configure meeting invitation setting as follows:
   - Help URL:  **http://helpteams.adatum.com**
   - Footer text:  **Sample legal disclaimer** **for Teams**
2. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Skype for Business admin center**, configure the following meeting invitation settings:

  - Help URL:  **http://helpskype.adatum.com**

  - Footer text:  **Sample legal disclaimer for Skype**

2. Use the  **Get-CsMeetingConfiguration** cmdlet to verify the meeting invitation settings. Remove Skype for Business session from PowerShell.



#### Task 5: Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Skype and Teams

1. On LON-CL1, install Teams client app from https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads. 
2. Sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**.
3. Create team called **Adatum General**. Select to automatically add all users from organization.
4. On  **LON-CL1**, open  **Skype for Business 2016**, and then sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**.
5. On  **LON-CL1**, open  **Outlook 2016**. Configure the account for Holly if needed.
6. Restart Outlook and Teams app, to configure integration. After restarting Outlook enable **Skype Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office 2016** and **Microsoft Teams Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office 2016** plug-ins.
7. In the Outlook 2016, create a new Skype meeting request, and then send it to Ada.
8. Open the meeting, and then verify the help link and custom footer text.
9. In the Outlook 2016, create a new Teams meeting request, and then send it to Ada. Verify settings of meeting request.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online and Teams service settings.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings

### Scenario

 You must configure different Skype for Business Online user settings based on the user's department. You will use Windows PowerShell to configure the settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings
2. Configure setting for a team
3. Verify Skype for Business and Teams communications



#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, edit the  **Ada Russell** user account to that Microsoft Teams and Skype for Business Online (Plan 2) are enabled.

2. Use Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center to assign Adatum Teams Policy to Ada Russell account.

3. Use legacy Skype for Business admin center to edit Ada Russell's Skype for Business user settings to remove the option to record meetings, and to prevent her from communicating with public Skype users.

4. Edit Francisco Chaves's Skype for Business user settings to enable him to connect to audio meetings only.

#### Task 2: Configure settings for a team

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center as Holly.
2. Navigate to Adatum General team that you created earlier and add a channel called Adatum Project A to that team.
3. Prevent users of this team to delete sent messages



#### Task 3: Verify Skype for Business and Teams communications
  >  **Note:** If you are prompted to reconfigure a firewall rule, do so. Authenticate with the **User Account Control** prompt as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

1. On  **LON-CL2**, ensure that you are signed in as Ada.
2. Download Microsoft Teams client app from https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads. Sign in as Ada@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com to Teams app.
3. Send a chat message to Holly Spencer by using Teams. Verify on LON-CL1 that Holly received a message.
4. Review sharing options that Holly and Ada have in their Teams applications. Ensure that Ada can only share window because of policy applied to her account.
5. Add OneNote notebook to Adatum Project A channel.
6. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
7. Sign in as  **Ada@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** by using Ada's password.
8. Open the  **Outlook** app, and in Calendar, click the meeting scheduled for tomorrow. Accept the invitation request.
9. Click the meeting once more, and then click  **Holly Spencer**.
10. In the pane on the right, click the link for Holly's instant message address (the speech bubble symbol).
11. Send a short instant message to Holly.
12. On  **LON-CL1**, respond to the message.
13. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that the IM from Holly is received.
14. In the Calendar app, join the meeting.
15. Click  **Install and join with Skype Meetings App (web)** and install the app. Then, in Microsoft Edge, when the app is downloaded and installed, click **Join the meeting**.
16. Sign in as  **Ada@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** by using Ada's password.
17. When prompted, click  **Phone: I will dial in** and then click **Connect**.
18. On  **LON-CL1**, join the meeting, and then verify that Ada is connected to the meeting.
19. Share your desktop.
20. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that Holly's desktop is visible in the meeting window.
21. On  **LON-CL2**, disconnect from the meeting and sign out.
22. On  **LON-CL1**, disconnect from the meeting, and sign out.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings and validated Skype for Business Online and Teams functionality.


## Exercise 3: Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online

### Scenario

 Your users have been experiencing sign-in problems from their various devices. You will use several tools from the  **Skype for Business admin center** and tools available online to test client connectivity.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Run the Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators tool

2. Run the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer

3. Access the Office 365 Lync Domain Name System Connectivity Test

4. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Run the Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators tool

1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in as  **Holly**.

2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

3. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** by using Holly's password.

4. Open the legacy  **Skype for Business admin center**, and click the  **tools** node.

5. Launch  **Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators**.

6. Choose the following options in the wizard:

  -  **One user, or a few here and there**

  -  **Yes**

  -  **Yes**



#### Task 2: Run the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, in the  **Skype for Business admin center**, in the  **tools** node, click **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer**.

2. On the  **Remote Connectivity Analyzer** webpage, on the **SfB / Lync** tab, choose **Skype for Business Autodiscover Web Service**.

3. In the  **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, enter the verification code shown, and then click  **Perform Test**.

4. The connectivity test fails. Expand out each node in the report. What is the cause of the failure?



#### Task 3: Access the Office 365 Lync Domain Name System Connectivity Test

1. Open a new tab in Microsoft Edge and navigate to  **https://www.testconnectivity.microsoft.com/?testid=o365lyncdns**.

2. On the  **Remote Connectivity Analyzer** webpage, under the **Office 365 Lync Domain Name Server Connectivity Test** heading, click **Office 365**.

3. In the  **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, enter the verification code shown, and then click  **Perform Test**.

4. Expand each node in the report. What records were checked? 

5. Close all open windows.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully tested client sign-in and Skype for Business Online configuration.



## 

**Question** 
How will you change the Windows PowerShell steps that you ran in the lab if you want to block all communication with external domains except litware.com?

**Question** 
When you attempt to connect to your Skype for Business Online subscription by using the Windows PowerShell  **New-CsOnlineSession** cmdlet, you receive an error:

```
Get-CsPowerShellEndpoint : Unable to query AutoDiscover URL at: http://lyncdiscover.Adatum.com?Domain=Adatum.com
```


What is the likely cause of the error, and what can you do to resolve the issue?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
