# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Administering and troubleshooting Skype for Business and Teams
# Lab: Administering Skype for Business Online and Teams

## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online and Teams organization settings

#### Task 1: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell and Teams module for Windows PowerShell

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688).
2. On the  **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** page, click **Download**, click  **Save**, and then click  **Run**.
3. Select the  **I agree to the license terms and conditions** check box, and then click **Install**.
4. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, if it appears, click **Yes**.
5. Click  **Close** on **Setup Successful** window, when installation is done. If prompted to restart again, do it.
6. After your computer restarts, sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.
7. Click Start, type **powershell** in the search box and then right click on **Windows PowerShell** icon and select **Run as administrator**. 
8. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, if it appears, click **Yes**.
9. In the Windows PowerShell window, type **Install-Module -Name MicrosoftTeams** and press Enter.
10. When prompted to confirm untrusted repository, type **Y** and press Enter.
11. Keep Windows PowerShell window open.

#### Task 2: Connect to Skype for Business by using Windows PowerShell

1. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:


```
$msolcred = Get-Credential
```

4. In the  **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, enter the user name **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, and Holly's password, and then click  **OK**.

5. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $msolcred
```

>  **Note:** If you receive an error, repeat the previous task by downloading and installing the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell module. You do not need to restart. Then, start this task from step 1.

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Import-PSSession $SfBSession
```



#### Task 3: Configure settings for Skype for Business Online and Teams

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Windows PowerShell command-line interface window, type the following command to enable the privacy mode, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $true
```

Note the warning that you receive about enabling client version checking.

2. To disable push notifications for Apple devices, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $false
```

3. To verify the privacy notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration
```

You should see the following output:

  - Identity:  **Global**

  - EnablePrivacyMode:  **True**

  - AutoInitiateContacts:  **True**

  - PublishLocationDataDefault:  **True**

  - DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault:  **True**

4. To verify the push notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration
```

5. To allow users to communicate with public Skype users, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowPublicUsers $true
```

6. To allow users to communicate with federated partners, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowFederatedUsers $true
```

7. To enable communication with all federated partners except for  **litware.com**, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

```
$AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
$BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
```

8. To verify the external communication changes, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
```

9. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command and then press Enter:

   ```
   Connect-MicrosoftTeams -Credential $msolcred
   ```

   Ensure that you get information about your Teams tenant.

10. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-Command -Module *Teams*
    ```

    Ensure that you get a list of all available cmdlets for managing Teams by using Windows PowerShell.

11. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command and then press Enter:

    ```
    New-Team -DisplayName "Adatum Projects" -Description "Team for Adatum Projects" -Visibility Private
    ```

    Ensure that you don't receive any error message. Leave Windows PowerShell window open.

12. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

13. If needed, sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

14. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Admin** tile.

15. In the  **Microsoft Microsoft 365 admin center**, on the navigation menu to the left, navigate to  **Admin centers**, click **Show all** and then click  **Teams**. 

16. In the left navigation menu, click **Legacy portal**. Skype for Business admin center will open in the new tab.

17. On the left-hand side in Skype for Business admin center, click  **organization**.

18. On the  **general** page, under **presence privacy mode**, verify that the setting is configured as  **Display presence information only to a user's contacts**.

19. Under  **mobile phone notifications**, verify that  **Apple Push Notification Service** is not enabled, and then click **external communications**.

20. Under  **external access**, verify that  **On except for blocked domains** is selected.

21. Verify that  **under blocked or allowed domains**,  **litware.com** is listed.

22. Switch to the tab where Microsoft Teams admin center is open. Expand **Org-wide settings** menu.

23. Click on **External access**. Review settings in the right pane. Ensure that litware.com is listed as blocked domain.

24. Expand **Meetings** and then click on **Meeting policies**. In the right menu, click **Add**.

25. In the Title line, type **Adatum Teams meeting policy**.

26. In the **Audio & video** section, enable **Allow transcription**.

27. In the **Content sharing** section, in the **Screen sharing mode** list, select **Single application**.

28. Enable the option **Allow an external participant to give or request control**.

29. Click **Save**.

30. Switch back to the tab where Microsoft Teams admin center is open. Expand **Teams** and then click **Manage teams**.

31. Ensure that you see Adatum Projects team listed, and that the value in its **Privacy** column is set to **Private**.

#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams and Skype

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Microsoft Teams admin center**, expand  **Meetings**, and then click  **Meeting settings**.

2. In the  **Help URL** text box, type **http://helpteams.Adatum.com**.

3. In the  **Footer text** text box, type **Sample legal disclaimer for Teams**. Click  **Preview invite**. In the Email invite preview window, ensure that disclaimer text is shown and that Help link is connected to help.Adatum.com. Click **Save**.

4. Switch to the tab where Skype admin center is open. Click **online meetings** and then on the **meeting invitation** tab set the values for Skype as you set for Teams in steps 2 and 3 (URL should be **http://helpskype.Adatum.com** and **Sample legal disclaimer for Skype**). Click **save**.

5. Restore Windows PowerShell window on LON-CL1 and then at the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CsMeetingConfiguration
```

5. Verify that the  **Help URL** and **CustomFooterText** display the correct information.

6. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Remove-PSSession $SfBSession
```

7. Close the Windows PowerShell window.


#### Task 5: Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Teams

1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge and navigate to [**https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads**](https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads).

2. Click **Download Teams** in Windows section on Desktop Apps page. Click **Save**, and then click **Run**.

3. In the Login to Microsoft Teams window, sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, with password that you set for Holly's account. Click **Sign in**.

4. Close **Bring your team together** window, if it appears. Close the **Get the Teams mobile app** window, if it appears.

5. In Teams window, click **Teams**, ensure that you see Adatum Projects team and then click **Join or create a team**. In the Join or create a team window, click **Create team**.

6. In the Create your team window, click **Build a team from scratch**.

7. In the What kind of team will this be? window, click **Org-wide**.

8. In the Some quick details about your org-wide team window, type **Adatum General** for Team name. Click **Create**. After team is created, minimize Teams window.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, click  **Start**, scroll down, and then click  **Skype for Business**.

10. On the  **The fine print** page, if it appears, click  **Accept and start Skype for Business**.

11. In the  **Skype for Business** window, in the **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, and then click  **Sign In**.

12. After you signed in to Skype, you will get the message **Your organization is now using Microsoft Teams!**. Click **Go to Teams**. 

    **Note**: This is now default behavior for all new Office 365 tenants. All users are automatically switched from Skype for Business to Teams.

13. In the **Teams** window, click **HS** icon at the top right corner, click **Settings** and then on **General** tab ensure that the option **Register Teams as the chat app for Office** is selected. If it is not selected, select it and then close the **Settings** window.

14. Start **Outlook**. Click **File** menu, click **Options** and click **Add-Ins**. Click **Go...** at the bottom of the window.

15. In the COM Add-ins window, ensure that **Microsoft Teams Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office** is present and selected. If you don't see this add-in, restart LON-CL1, sign in as Adatum\Holly and repeat steps 14 and 15. Click **OK**.

16. In Outlook window, click **Calendar** icon. Ensure that on the ribbon, you see **New Teams Meeting** icon. This confirms that Outlook is now integrated with Microsoft Teams.

17. On the **Home** tab of the ribbon, click  **New Items**,  and then click  **Teams Meeting**.

18. In the  **To** text box, type **Ada**. Click  **Check Names** icon on the ribbon and then select Ada Russell.

19. Create a meeting request for a time tomorrow using the subject  **Test Teams Meeting**.

20. Send the meeting request.

21. In the calendar, double-click the meeting that you just created. Verify that the meeting contains a link to Join the Teams meeting, the custom footer text, and that the help link references http://helpteams.Adatum.com. Close the meeting window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online and Teams service settings.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings

#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**.

2. On the navigation menu, expand  **Users**, and then click  **Active users**. Select  **Ada Russel**, and then click  **Licenses and Apps**  tab. Expand the **Apps** section.

3. Ensure that  **Skype for Business Online (Plan 2)**, and **Microsoft Teams**  are enabled. Click  **Save changes**, and then close the Ada Russell window.

4. On the navigation menu, select  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Teams**.

5. In the Microsoft Teams admin center, on the navigation menu, click  **Users**.

6. Verify that  **Ada Russel** is listed as a Teams user. Click on **Ada Russel** and explore available settings. Click **Policies** and in the **Assigned policies** section, click **Edit**.

7. In the Meeting policy list, select **Adatum Teams policy**. Click **Apply**. Don't close the Microsoft Teams admin center.

8. Click **Legacy portal**.

9. In Skype for Business admin center, click **users** , select  **Ada Russell**, and then click  **Edit**.

10. On the  **general** tab, under **Audio and video**, clear the  **Record conversations and meetings** check box.

11. On the navigation menu, click  **external communications**, clear the  **External Skype users** check box, and then click  **save**.

12. Click the  **back** icon, select **Francisco Chaves**, and then click  **Edit**.

13. On the  **general** tab, under **Audio and video**, select  **Audio only** from the drop-down list box. Click **save**.


#### Task 2: Configure settings for a team

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, switch to tab where Microsoft Teams admin center is open.

2. In the left navigation menu, click **Teams** and then click **Manage Teams**.

3. Click on **Adatum General**.

4. In the **Adatum General** pane, ensure that you see all users listed as members.

5. Click **Channels** and then click **Add a channel**.

6. In the Add channel pane, type **Adatum Project A** in the **Name** box and click **Apply**.

7. Click **Edit** in the top right corner.

8. Expand **Conversation** in **Edit team** pane, and disable the option **Team members can delete sent messages**. Click **Apply**.

9. Switch to Teams app on LON-CL1. Ensure that you see **Adatum Project A** as a new channel, when you expan **Adatum General** team.

10. Leave **Teams** application open.


#### Task 3: Verify Teams communications

  >  **Note:** If you are prompted to reconfigure a firewall rule, do so. Authenticate with the **User Account Control** prompt as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.


1. On  **LON-CL2**, ensure that you are signed in as **Adatum\Ada**.
2. Open Microsoft Edge and navigate to [**https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads**](https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads).
3. Click **Download Teams**. Click **Save**, and then click **Run**.
4. In the Login to Microsoft Teams window, sign in as **Ada@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, with password **Pa55w.rd**. Click **Sign in**. Ensure that you are not signing in as Ada@adatum.com.
5. If the **One more step to set up Teams with Office** window, click **Let's do it**. If the User Account control window appears, type Adatum\Administrator and password Pa55w.rd credentials and click **Yes**.
6. Close **Bring your team together** window, if it appears. Close the **Get the Teams mobile app** window, if it appears.
7. In the Teams window, click **Chat** in the left navigation pane. In the user list, click **Holly Spencer** and then in the right pane, write a message to Holly, and then hit **Enter**.
8. Switch to LON-CL1. In Teams app, click on **Chat** and ensure that you get message from **Ada**.
9. In the Chat window in Teams on LON-CL1, click the **Start sharing your screen** icon (that is third icon in the top right corner). Review available options for sharing - you should see **Desktop** and **Window** options. You can also see option to share an app if you have any application open.
10. Switch to LON-CL2. Click the same sharing icon in the Teams app. Ensure that you see only **Window** option. This is because you applied custom Teams policy to Ada Russell account.
11. In the Teams app window, click **Teams** in the left navigation pane. Click **Adatum Project A** in the middle pane.
12. In the **Adatum General > Adatum Project A** window, click **+** icon. In the **Add a tab** window, click on **OneNote**. In the OneNote window, click **Adatum General Notebook** and click **Save**.
13. Ensure that OneNote book is added to Adatum Project A channel.
14. On LON-CL2, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
15. Sign in as   **Ada@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, with password for Ada's account, by using Ada's password. If prompted to stay signed in, click Yes.
16. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Outlook** tile.
17. Select the local time zone and then click  **Save**.
18. In the Outlook window, click Calendar icon, click the meeting scheduled for tomorrow, click  **Yes**, and then click  **Send**.
19. Click the meeting once more, and then click  **Holly Spencer**.
20. In the pane on the right, click the link for Holly's instant message address (the speech bubble symbol).
21. In the Did you mean to switch apps window, click **Yes**.
22. Ensure that Microsoft Teams app opened, and that chat window with Holly is open. Type the message in the window and press Enter.
23. On  **LON-CL1**, click the  **Ada Russell** pop up window on the taskbar.
24. Type a message, and then press Enter.
25. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that the IM from Holly is received.
26. In Calendar window in Outlook Web App for Ada Russell, click the scheduled meeting, and then click  **Join Teams Meeting**.
27. You will be automatically switched to Teams app on LON-CL2. In the Teams app, click **Join now**. 
28. On  **LON-CL1**, where you are signed in as Holly, open Teams, click Calendar icon, and then click **Join** on the test meeting on your calendar. Click **Join now**. 
29. Verify that Holly is connected to the meeting and then verify that you see Ada Russell on the call.
30. In the meeting window, click the  **Share** icon, and then click **Desktop**.
31. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that Holly's desktop is visible in the meeting window.
32. On  **LON-CL1**, click  **Stop Presenting** in the top toolbar.
33. On  **LON-CL2**, disconnect from the meeting and sign out.
34. On  **LON-CL1**, disconnect from the meeting, and sign out.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings and validated Skype for Business Online and Teams functionality.


## Exercise 3: Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online

#### Task 1: Run the Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators tool

1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

3. If needed, sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

4. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Admin** tile.

5. In the  **Microsoft Microsoft 365 admin center**, on the navigation menu, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Teams**.

6. In the admin portal, click **Legacy portal**.

7. In the  **Skype for Business admin center**, in the navigation pane, click  **tools**.

8. In the details pane, click  **Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators**.

9. Review the links that you will get as a suggestion.

   


#### Task 2: Run the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, in the  **Skype for Business admin center**, in the  **tools** node, click **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer**.

2. On the  **Remote Connectivity Analyzer** webpage, under the **Select the test you want to run** heading, click the **SfB / Lync** tab.

3. Click  **Skype for Business Autodiscover Web Service**, and then click  **Next**.

4. On the  **Skype for Business Autodiscover Web Service** page, in the **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number.

5. In the text box beneath the  **Verification** heading, enter the displayed code, click **Verify**, and then click  **Perform Test**.

6. The connectivity test fails. Expand out each node in the report. What is the cause of the failure?
The SSL certificate failed one or more certificate validation checks.



#### Task 3: Access the Office 365 Lync Domain Name System Connectivity Test

1. Open a new tab in Microsoft Edge and navigate to  [**https://www.testconnectivity.microsoft.com/?testid=o365lyncdns**](https://www.testconnectivity.microsoft.com/?testid=o365lyncdns).

2. On the  **Remote Connectivity Analyzer** webpage, under the **Office 365 Lync Domain Name Server Connectivity Test** heading, click **Office 365**.

3. In the  **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, and then click  **Perform Test**.

4. Expand each node in the report. What records were checked? 

- SRV records
   + \_sip.\_tls.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com
   + \_sipfederationtls.\_tcp.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com

- CNAME records
   + sip.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com
   + lyncdiscover.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com

5. Close all open windows.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully tested client sign-in and Skype for Business Online configuration.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
