# Module 2: Office 365 Administration, Tools, and Techniques
# Lab: Administering Office 365

### Scenario

 A. Datum Corporation wants to evaluate the administration tools and techniques available in Office 365. The company wants to choose the most efficient technology to manage its Office 365 tenant and objects. Also, A. Datum Corporation wants to be able to delegate parts of administrative control to more than one administrator.


### Objectives

 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Use the Microsoft 365 admin center.

- Administer Office 365 by using Windows PowerShell.

- Configure role-based administration in Office 365.

- Troubleshoot Office 365 administration issues.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup

 Estimated time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**,  **10997C-LON-DC1**, and  **10997C-LON-CL1**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, click  **Start**, point to  **Administrative Tools**, and then click  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

4. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10997C-LON-DC1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

5. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

6. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

7. Repeat steps 4 and 5 on  **10997C-LON-CL1** and then sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Holly**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, that you choose in Lab 1 - Exercise 1, Task 1. In all tasks, where you see references to ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** replace this string with your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

>  **Note:** If you see the **Update your admin contact info** prompt at any time during the lab, click **Cancel** to continue.


## Exercise 1: Using the administrative portal

### Scenario

 To familiarize administrators with graphical interfaces for administration, you want to evaluate the administration portal for Office 365 administration.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create user accounts

2. Review the available Admin centers



#### Task 1: Create user accounts

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

3. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, browse to  **Active Users**.

4. Add a new  **Lindsey Gates** user account with the user name **Lindsey**.

5. On the  **User was added** page, view the temporary password, and then note the temporary password here: ____________

6. Repeat steps 4 and 5 to create the following users:

  - Christie Thomas

  - Amy Santiago

  - Sallie McIntosh

  - Francisco Chaves

7. Note their temporary passwords here:

  - Christie Thomas _____________

  - Amy Santiago _______________

  - Sallie McIntosh _____________

  - Francisco Chaves ___________



#### Task 2: Review the available Admin centers

1. In Microsoft Edge, in the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the navigation pane, click  **Admin centers**.

2. Select the Exchange admin center and review the available recipients.

3. Review the organization settings.

4. Review the permissions settings.

5. Review the accepted domains settings in mail flow settings.

6. From the Admin center, open the Teams admin center.

7. Review the available users.

8. Review the organization settings.

9. From the Admin center, open the SharePoint admin center.

10. Review the available site collections.

11. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the administrative portal and explored the user interface.


## Exercise 2: Administering Office 365 with Windows PowerShell

### Scenario

 In your day-to-day work as an Office 365 administrator, you expect that you will need to manage hundreds of user and group accounts. To manage these efficiently, you will need to use Windows PowerShell. In preparation for this, you need to get familiar with managing users and groups using Windows PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create user accounts

2. Using Windows PowerShell to change user settings



#### Task 1: Create user accounts

1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the desktop, right-click the  **Windows PowerShell** shortcut, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
3. In the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type **Install-Module MSOnline** and then press Enter. When prompted for NuGet provider, type **Y** and press Enter. If prompted to Untrusted repository, type **Y** and press Enter. Wait until MSOnline package is installed and you get command prompt back.
4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Connect-MsolService
```

4. In the  **Enter Credentials** dialog box, sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where  ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

5. Use the following command to create a new user account, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.

```
New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine" -LastName "Richard" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
```

6. Use the following command to create another new user, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.

```
New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
```

7. Use the following command to determine which users are unlicensed:

```
Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
```

8. To view the available licenses, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolAccountSku
```

9. Use the following command to assign a license to Catherine Richard; replace ***Adatumyyxxxxx*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with your unique Adatum number:

```
Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
```

10. Use the following command to assign a license to Tameka Reed; replace ***Adatumyyxxxxx*** in the  **-AddLicenses** attribute with your unique Adatum number:

```
Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
```

11. Use the following command to prevent a user from signing in to Office 365, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name:

```
Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $true
```

12. Use the following command to delete a user, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name:

```
Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -Force
```

13. Use the following command to view the list of deleted users:

```
Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
```

14. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the list of deleted users.

15. Use the following command to restore a deleted user, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name:

```
Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com
```

16. Use the following command to view the deleted users:

```
Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
```

17. Verify that Catherine Richard is no longer in the deleted users list.

18. Use the following command to view the active users list:

```
Get-MsolUser
```

19. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the active users list.

20. Use the following command to allow a user to sign in, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name:

```
Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $false
```



#### Task 2: Using Windows PowerShell to change user settings

1. Use the following command to assign a new password to Tameka's account, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name. Provide a different password that meets the complexity requirements:

```
Set-MsolUserPassword -UserPrincipalName "Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com" -NewPassword 'Provide a new password'
```

2. Use the following command to set user passwords to expire. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolUser | Set-MsolUser -PasswordNeverExpires $false 
```


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully administered Office 365 by using Windows PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Configuring role-based administration

### Scenario

 Your team members will have different responsibilities in Office 365. To ensure that team members have only the permissions that they require to perform various tasks in Office 365, you plan to assign different administrator roles to different users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Assign service administrators in the Microsoft 365 admin center

2. Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell

3. Verify service administration



#### Task 1: Assign service administrators in the Microsoft 365 admin center

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password.

3. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, edit  **Francisco Chaves**, and change the role to  **Billing admin.**

4. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, edit  **Tameka Reed**, and change the role to  **Helpdesk admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, edit  **Christie Thomas**, and change the role to  **User admin**.



#### Task 2: Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell

1. In Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell window on  **LON-CL1**, use the following command to add Sallie to the service support administrator role, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name:

```
Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Service Support Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com"
```

2. Use the following command to add Amy to the company administrator role, replacing ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** with your unique domain name:

```
Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Company Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Amy@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com"
```

3. Use the following command to input the service support administrator role to the $role variable:

```
$role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Service Support Administrator"
```

4. Use the following command to list the role members:

```
Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
```

5. Verify that Sallie McIntosh is in the list of users who have the Service Support Administrator role.

6. Use the following command to input the billing administrator role to the $role variable:

```
$role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Billing Administrator"
```

7. Use the following command to list the role members:

```
Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
```

8. Verify that Francisco Chaves is in the list of users who have the billing administrator role.

9. Use the following command to input the company administrator role to the $role variable:

```
$role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Company Administrator"
```

10. Use the following command to list the role members:

```
Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
```

11. Verify that Amy Santiago is in the list of users who have the Company Administrator role.



#### Task 3: Verify service administration

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, by using the password you assigned to Tameka's account.

3. Access the new Microsoft 365 admin center.

4. Verify that you cannot modify any settings for Lindsey Gates's user account.

5. Verify that you can reset Lindsey's password.

6. Write down the temporary password assigned to Lindsey: ______________________________

7. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

8. Sign in as  **Christie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** using the temporary password assigned earlier, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name. Change the password to a new password.

9. Verify that you can modify settings on the Lindsey Gates user account. Change her phone number to 555-1234, and then block her sign-in access.

10. Verify that you can add a new user named  **Chris Breland**.

11. Verify that you can also delete the user account that you created.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have assigned Office 365 administrator roles.


## Exercise 4: Troubleshooting administrative access in Office 365

### Scenario

 During the administration of Office 365, one of the administrators reports that he is not able to perform certain tasks in Office 365 that are part of his responsibilities. You must troubleshoot this issue.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Attempt to unblock a user

2. Attempt a resolution

3. Test your resolution

4. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Attempt to unblock a user

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. When prompted, sign in as  **Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, by using the password that you recorded earlier in the lab when you created Sallie's account.

3. When prompted, change Sallie's password to a new password and sign in.

4. Open the Admin center and locate the  **Active users** node.

5. Unblock Lindsey Gates's account. You are not successful. Why?

6. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Attempt a resolution

- Using the skills that you have learned in this module, attempt to resolve the problem.



#### Task 3: Test your resolution

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. When prompted, sign in as  **Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, by using the password you assigned to Sallie's account.

3. Open the Admin center and locate the  **Active users** node.

4. Unblock Lindsey Gates's account. You are now successful.

5. Close all open windows.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have resolved issues with Office 365 administration.



## 

**Question** 
After creating a user account, what account settings are available for you to edit in the Active users window of the Microsoft 365 admin center?

**Question** 
What password policy settings are available in Office 365?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
