# Module 1: Office 365 services overview
# Lab: Office 365 services overview

### Scenario

 As one of the most experienced IT administrators at A. Datum Corporation, you are responsible for Office 365 management. To start, you want to provision your Office 365 tenant so that you can evaluate some administrative tasks.


### Objectives

 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Set up an Office 365 tenant.

- Configure tenant options.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup

 Estimated time: 45 minutes

Virtual machines:  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**,  **10997C-LON-DC1**, and  **10997C-LON-CL1**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, click  **Start**, point to  **Administrative Tools**, and then click  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

4. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10997C-LON-DC1**, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

5. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

6. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

7. Repeat steps 4 and 5 on  **10997C-LON-CL1**, and then sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Holly**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number that you choose in Lab 1 - Exercise 1, Task 1. In all tasks, where you see references to ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** replace this string with your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.



## Exercise 1: Setting up an Office 365 lab environment

### Scenario

 The first step in starting the pilot deployment is to configure the Office 365 tenant. You need to create a new tenant using the  **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** domain name.

>  **Note:** This lab uses a standard Office 365 trial account, not a FastTrack pilot extended tenant account. Also, you need to create an account with a unique name in the form: **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**. You can use your two primary initials followed by a unique five-digit number. For example, **Adatum*AB12345***. You can also get the name from your lab setup info.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription

2. Verify the health of services



#### Task 1: Create an Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then go to the following URL:  [**https://aka.ms/v2jy2f**](https://aka.ms/v2jy2f). 

2. Click  **Free trial**.

3. Use the following information to create your trial tenant:

  - Country:  Select your country or region. If it is not available, select **United States**

  - First name:  **Holly**

  - Last name: **Spencer**

  - Business email address:  *Use your new Microsoft account that you created for this course or your personal email address*.

  - Business phone number:  *Use your mobile phone number, including the international code, for the country/region that you are really in*.

  - Company name:  **A. Datum**

  - Organization size:  **250-999 people**

4. For Step 2, create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course. Use the  **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** form. For the rest of the fields, use the following information:

  - User name:  **Holly**

  - Company name: **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** (where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number)

  - Password:  Create a password that meets the complexity requirements. Document Holly's password.

  - Confirm password:  Type the same password

5. For Step 3, confirm your identity by using your mobile phone. Under  **Text me**, from the drop-down box, select the code for the country/region that you are really in.

6. In the  **Phone number** box, enter your correct mobile phone number.

7. When you receive the confirmation text on your mobile phone, enter the code provided into the  **Enter your verification code** box.

9. Click  **Create my account**.

10. Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, and then click  **Go to Setup**.

11. Click the  **Admin** tile to go to the Microsoft 365 admin center.

#### Task 2: Add the custom domain and verify ownership

1. In the left pane of Microsoft 365 admin center, select **Show all**, select **Settings**, and then select **Domains**.  Then select **Add domain**.
2. In the text box, enter your domain name in the form of ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com***.
3. Select **Next**.
4. On the **Verify domain** page, write down the  **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value below:

  MS=_______________________

5. Switch to  **LON-DC1**.

6. From the Start menu, select  **Server Manager** if it is not open already. 

7. Select  **Tools**, and then select  **DNS**.

8. Expand  **LON-DC1**, and select  **Forward Lookup Zones**.

9. Right-click  **Forward Lookup Zones** and select **New Zone**.

10. On the  **New Zone Wizard** page, select **Next**.

11. On the  **Zone Type** page, verify that **Primary zone** is selected. Clear the **Store the zone in Active Directory** check box, and select **Next**.

12. On the  **Zone Name** page, type **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** and select **Next**.

13. On the  **Zone File** page, select **Next**.

14. On the  **Dynamic Update** page, select **Next**, and then select  **Finish**. 

15. Expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, select and then right-click  **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, and then select  **Other New Records**.

16. Under  **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to  **Text (TXT)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

17. In the  **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

18. In the  **Text** field, enter **MS=msXXXXXXXX** that you recorded in Step 4.

19. Select  **OK** to create the record.

20. In the  **Resource Record type** dialog box, select **Done**.

21. Right-click  **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, and select  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

22. In the  **New Host** box, Under **Name**, type the name of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. If this name is not provided, leave the Name field blank.

23. Under  **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

24. Select  **Add Host**, then close the **New Host** dialog box.

    *Note: Following steps might not be required by all lab hosting providers. Check with your instructor if you need to create records in steps 25,26, and 27.*

25. Double-click the  **Start of Authority (SOA)** record and replace the **Primary Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider. 

26. Select **OK**.

27. Double-click the  **Name Server (NS)** record, and select **Edit**. Replace the **Server fully qualified domain name (FQDN)** name with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. Select **Resolve**, and then select **OK** twice.

28. Switch back to  **LON-CL1** and in the Office 365 Admin center, select **Verify**. Wait until the domain is verified and then proceed to the next task.



#### Task 3: Completing the custom domain setup

1. On the **Choose your online services** page, verify that **Exchange** is selected, then select **Skype for Business**, and then select **Next**.

2. On the  **Update DNS settings** page, review the DNS records that you should add to the domain

3. Use the same procedure as for the TXT record in the previous task to add appropriate MX, SRV, CNAME and TXT records to your custom domain. Use **Verify** option after you create these records to verify in Office 365 can verify them.

4. Ensure that you get **Congratulations! Your domain and email addresses are all set up.** message.

5. Select  **Finish**. Ensure that you see **(Default)** after your custom domain name. If your custom domain name is not configured as default, perform steps 6 and 7. 

6. On the **Domains** page, click on your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

7. On the domain page, click **Set as default**. When you see the message **The domain is successfully set as default**, click **Close**.

   ***Note: By configuring your custom domain name as default domain, all users that you create in your Office 365 tenant will have sign in name and email address on your custom domain name. Only first global admin account that you created during tenant provisioning will still use Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com domain name.***



#### Task 4: Verify the health of services

1. Use  **Service health** on the navigation menu on the left to display the **Service health** dashboard.

2. Review any service interruption records and additional information on the  **Incidents** page.

>  **Note:** During Microsoft testing, on rare occasions Office 365 did not create the trial tenant properly. As a result, the tenant did not have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, create a new trial tenant by using a different business email address (a Microsoft account).

3. Close Microsoft Edge.

4. If you receive a prompt, click  **Close all tabs**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Office 365 tenant account for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Office 365 services

### Scenario

 In this exercise, you will verify the configuration of your Office 365 tenant and configure services and add-ins.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review services and add-ins

2. Verify security and privacy settings

3. Determine current licenses

4. Update the organization profile

5. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Review services and add-ins

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

3. Open  **Services &amp; add-ins** from the **Settings** menu in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

4. Review the Cortana settings.

5. Review the Mail settings.

6. Disable the Office Store.



#### Task 2: Verify security and privacy settings

1. Open  **Security &amp; privacy** beneath the **Settings** node in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. Change the password policy to require password expiration after 42 days.

3. Review the  **Customer Lockbox** settings.



#### Task 3: Determine current licenses

1. Open  **Licenses** beneath the **Billing** node in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. Review the available licenses for the Office 365 Enterprise E5 subscription.

3. Click  **Subscriptions**, and then review the Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription.



#### Task 4: Update the organization profile

1. Open  **Organization profile** beneath the **Settings** node in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. Review the  **Release preferences** settings.

3. Review the  **Manage custom themes for your organization** settings.

4. Review other available setting and save the changes.


7. Close all windows on  **LON-CL1**, and then sign out.



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully verified the configuration of your Office 365 tenant.



## 

**Question** 
How many licenses are available in your Office 365 subscription? 

**Question** 
What release track is your organization on? 



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  