# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Office 365 Administration, Tools, and Techniques
# Lab: Administering Office 365

## Exercise 1: Using the administrative portal

#### Task 1: Create user accounts

1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. Open Microsoft Edge browser, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

3. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password. 

   *Note : We are using Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com as a default domain for Holly's account because this account is the first global admin account created. For all other accounts, we will use customdomainname.hostdomain.com as a sign in domain, as this is default domain for your Office 365 tenant.*

4. On the Microsoft Office 365 portal, click  **Admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the menu on the left side, expand  **Users**, and then click  **Active Users**.

6. Click  **Add a user**.

7. On the  **Set up the basics** page, in the **First name** text box, type **Lindsey**.

8. In the  **Last name** text box, type **Gates**.

9. Notice that the  **Display name** text box is automatically filled in as **Lindsey Gates**.

10. In the  **User name** text box, type **Lindsey**.

11. Verify that  ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is listed in the text box after the at sign (@), as your unique domain name. Ensure that **Auto-generate password** is selected as well as option to require the user to change their password when they first sign in.

12. Click **Next**.

13. On the **Assign product licenses page**, in the **Select location** drop-down list, select your country. If your country is not listed, select **United States**.  In the **Licenses** section, ensure that Office 365 E5 is selected and click **Next**.

14. On the **Optional settings** page, review available options, but don't make any changes. Click **Next**.

15. On the  **You're almost done - review and finish adding** page, review configured settings and click **Finish adding**. 

16. On the **Lindsey Gates has been added** page, note the temporary password here: _______________ and click **Close**.

17. Repeat steps 6 through 16 to create the following users (for the  **User name**, use the  **First name**):

  - Christie Thomas

  - Amy Santiago

  - Sallie McIntosh

  - Francisco Chaves

15. Note their temporary passwords here:

  - Christie Thomas _____________

  - Amy Santiago _______________

  - Sallie McIntosh ______________

  - Francisco Chaves ____________



#### Task 2: Review the available Admin centers

1. In Microsoft Edge, in the Microsoft 365 Admin center, in the navigation pane, expand  **Admin centers**. If needed, click **Show all** in the Admin centers section.

2. In the list of admin centers, click  **Exchange**. A new tab opens in Microsoft Edge.

3. In the Exchange admin center. In the navigation pane, click  **recipients**. Your users are listed.

4. In the navigation pane, click  **organization**. Review the settings.

5. In the navigation pane, click  **permissions**.

6. Review the available admin roles.

7. In the navigation pane, click  **mail flow**, and then click the  **accepted domains** link.

8. Review the accepted domains.

9. Switch back to the Microsoft 365 Admin center and then, in the navigation pane, click  **Teams**. A new tab opens in Microsoft Edge.

10. In the navigation pane, click  **Users**. Your users are listed.

11. In the navigation pane, expand  **Org-wide settings**.

12. Review the available settings.

13. Switch back to the Microsoft 365 admin center and then, in the navigation pane, click  **SharePoint**. A new tab opens in Microsoft Edge.

14. In the navigation pane, click to expand  **Sites**, and then click  **Active sites**. Review the available site collections.

15. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the administrative portal and explored the user interface.


## Exercise 2: Administering Office 365 with Windows PowerShell

#### Task 1: Create user accounts

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the search box type **powershell**. In the Best match list, right click **Windows PowerShell (x86)** and then click **Run as administrator**.
3. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
4. In the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type **Install-Module MSOnline** and then press Enter. When prompted for NuGet provider, type **Y** and press Enter. If prompted to Untrusted repository, type **Y** and press Enter. Wait until MSOnline package is installed and you get command prompt back.
5. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Connect-MsolService
```

4. In the  **Sign in** dialog box, sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where  ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, click **Next** and then type Holly's password.

5. At the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name; and then press Enter. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.

```
New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine" -LastName "Richard" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
```

6. At the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name; and then press Enter. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.

```
New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
```

7. To determine which users are unlicensed, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
```

8. To view the available licenses, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolAccountSku
```

9. To license Catherine Richard, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain; and then press Enter. Replace ***Adatumyyxxxx*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with your unique domain name prefix that you can see in result of previous command:

```
Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
```

10. To license Tameka Reed, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain; and then press Enter. Replace ***Adatumyyxxxx*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with your unique domain name prefix:

```
Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
```

11. To prevent a user from signing in, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $true
```

12. To delete a user, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -Force
```

13. To view the  **Deleted Users** list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
```

14. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the list of deleted users. Note that it specifies that she is still licensed.

15. To restore a deleted user, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com
```

16. To view the deleted users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
```

17. Verify that Catherine Richard is no longer in the list of deleted users.

18. To view the active users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolUser
```

19. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the active users list.

20. To allow a user to sign in, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $false
```



#### Task 2: Using Windows PowerShell to change user settings

1. At the Windows PowerShell prompt on  **LON-CL1**, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.

```
Set-MsolUserPassword -UserPrincipalName "Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com" -NewPassword 'Provide a password'
```

2. Use the following command to set user passwords to expire. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolUser | Set-MsolUser -PasswordNeverExpires $false
```


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully administered Office 365 by using Windows PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Configuring role-based administration

#### Task 1: Assign service administrators in the Office 365 admin center

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**;  where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, click  **Admin**.

4. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the left side menu, expand  **Users**, click  **Active users**, and then click  **Francisco Chaves**.

5. On the  **Francisco Chaves** page, in the Roles section, click **Manage roles**.

6. In the **Manage roles** window, click on **Admin center access** and then expand **Show all by category** and select  **Billing admin** from the **Other** section, and click  **Save changes**, and then close the window.

7. In the list view, click  **Tameka Reed**.

8. On the  **Tameka Reed** page, in the Roles section, click **Manage roles**.

9. In the **Manage admin roles** window, click on **Admin center access** and then select **Help desk admin** from the list, and click  **Save changes**, and then close the window.

10. In the list view, click  **Christie Thomas**.

13. On the  **Christie Thomas** page, in the Roles section, click **Manage roles**.

14. In the **Manage roles** window, click on **Admin center access** and then click  **User admin**, and then close the window. Click  **Save changes**, and then close the window.

15. Close Microsoft Edge.




#### Task 2: Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell

1. In the Windows PowerShell window on  **LON-CL1**, at the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Service Support Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com"
```

2. At the command prompt, type the following command, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Company Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Amy@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com"
```

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Service Support Administrator"
```

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
```

5. Verify that Sallie McIntosh is in the list of users who have the Service Support Administrator role.

6. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Billing Administrator"
```

7. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
```

8. Verify that Francisco Chaves is in the list of users who have the billing administrator role.

9. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Company Administrator"
```

10. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
```

11. Verify that Amy Santiago is in the list of users who have the Company Administrator role. You should also see Holly Spencer on the list.

12. Close the Windows PowerShell window.



#### Task 3: Verify service administration

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
2. Sign in as  **Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**;  where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, by using the password assigned to Tameka's account. If prompted to stay signed in, click **No**.
3. On the Office 365 portal, click  **Admin**.
4. If prompted, sign in again as  **Tameka@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**;  where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain, by using the password assigned to Tameka's account.
5. On the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand  **Users**, and then click  **Active users**.
6. Click  **Lindsey Gates**. Note that you cannot perform any administrative tasks.
7. Click  **Reset password** on the toolbar (it is the icon with a key).
8. On the  **Reset password** page, click **Reset**.
9. Write down the temporary password here for future reference, and then click  **Send email and close**: ______________________________.
10. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
11. Sign in as  **Christie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**;  where **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** is your unique domain name, by using the temporary password that you recorded earlier.
12. Change Christie's password to a new password that meets the complexity requirements. If prompted to stay signed in, click **No**.
13. In the Office 365 portal, click  **Admin**.
14. If prompted, sign in again as  **Christie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**;  where **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password you assigned to Christie's account.
15. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the Home page, expand **Users**, click  **Active users**, and then click  **Lindsey Gates**.
16. On the  **Lindsey Gates** page, in the **Contact information** section, click **Manage contact information**.
17. On the  **Edit contact information** page, expand **Contact information**.
18. In the  **Office Phone** text box, type **555-1234**, click  **Save**, and then click  **Close**.
19. On the **Lindsey Gates** page, click the  **Block** icon, then select **Block this user from signing in** and click **Save changes**.
20. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, click  **Add a user**.
21. In the  **First name** text box, type **Chris**.
22. In the  **Last name** text box, type **Breland**.
23. In the  **User name** text box, type **Chris**, and then click  **Next**.
24. On the **Assign product licenses** page, ensure that **Office 365 E5** is selected and click **Next**.
25. On the **Optional settings** page click **Next** and then click **Finish adding** and **Close**. 
26. In the  **Active users** list, click **Chris Breland**.
27. On  **Chris Breland** page, click the **Delete user** icon.
28. On the  **Delete Chris Breland** page, click **Delete user**, and then click  **Close**.
29. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have assigned Office 365 administrator roles.


## Exercise 4: Troubleshooting administrative access in Office 365

#### Task 1: Attempt to unblock a user

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password that you recorded earlier in the lab when you created Sallie's account.

3. On the  **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** text box, type the password that you recorded earlier.

4. In the  **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type a new password, and then click  **Update password and sign in**.

5. On the Microsoft Office 365 portal, click  **Admin**.

6. On the menu on the left side, click  **Users**, and then click  **Active Users**.

7. In the details pane, click  **Lindsey Gates**.

8. Notice that you are unable to unblock the account. Why?

9. Click  **Close**.

10. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Attempt a resolution

1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the desktop, right-click the  **Windows PowerShell** shortcut, and then click **Run as administrator**.

2. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Connect-MsolService
```

4. In the  **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where  ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, at the command prompt, type the following command, where **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** is your unique domain name, and then press Enter:

```
Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "User Account Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com"
```



#### Task 3: Test your resolution

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as **Sallie@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password you assigned to Sallie's account.

3. On the Microsoft Office 365 portal, click  **Admin**.

4. On the menu on the left side, click  **Users**, and then click  **Active Users**.

5. In the details pane, click  **Lindsey Gates**.

6. On the  **Lindsey Gates** page, click the icon to unblock the user.

7. On the **Unblock this user?** page remove the check mark from **Block this user from signing in** option, and then click  **Save changes**.

8. Close the window.

9. Close Microsoft Edge.

10. Close Windows PowerShell.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have resolved issues with Office 365 administration.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
