# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Office 365 services overview
# Lab: Office 365 services overview

## Exercise 1: Setting up an Office 365 lab environment

#### Task 1: Create an Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription

1. On  **LON-CL1** computer, on the taskbar, click  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In the address bar, type **https://aka.ms/v2jy2f**, and then press Enter.

3. Click the  **Free trial** link.

4. On the  **Thank for your choosing Office 365 E5** page, complete the following fields.  Use the following information:


  - Email address:  **Use your new Microsoft account that you created for this course or your personal email address**. Make sure that you didn't use this address for Office 365 trial before. After you enter your email address, click **Next** and then click **Set up account** to proceed to further steps.
  - First name:  **Holly**
  - Last name: **Spencer**
  - Business phone number:  ***Use your mobile phone number, including the international code, for the country/region that you are really in***.
  - Company name:  **A. Datum**
  - Organization size:  **250-999 people**
  - Country or region : Select your country or region. If your country is not available in the list, select **United States**.


5. Click **Next**.
6. On the  **Prove. You're. Not. A. Robot.** section, confirm your identity by using your mobile phone. Select **Text me** option, select the code for the country/region that you are really in.
7. In the  **Phone number** box, enter your correct and working mobile phone number. Ensure that you select correct country code.
8. Ensure that the  **Text me** option is selected, and then click **Send Verification Code** link below the phone number.
9. When you receive the confirmation text on your mobile phone, enter the code provided into the  **Verification code** box. Click **Verify**.
10. On the  **Create your business identity** page, create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course in the form of **Adatum*yyxxxxx***. You can use your two primary initials followed by a unique five-digit number. For example, Adatum***AB12345***. This will be your ***unique Adatum number*** throughout the course. When you enter the domain name, click **Check availability**. If the name is not available, select another name and try again. **Note** : You can also look at your lab info and use the Office 365 Blob name provided.
11. When you find an available domain name, click **Next**. 
12. On the **Create your business identity** page, fill in following data:


  - User name:  **Holly** (@Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com)

  - Password:  Create a password that meets the complexity requirements. Document Holly's password as you will use it through all labs.

  - Confirm password:  Type the same password


7. Click  **Sign up**.
8. Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, note your sign in data, and then click **Go to Setup**. Click **Get started**.
14. On the **Personalize your sign-in and email** page, click **Exit and continue later**. 
15. If the Welcome to the Office 365 Admin center window appears, click **Skip**.
16. Ensure that Microsoft 365 admin center opens. If it does not open, refresh the page in the browser.

#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center click **Show all** in the left navigation pane.  Click **Settings**, and then select **Domains**.  On the Domains page, click **Add domain**.
2. On the Add a domain page, in the text box, enter your domain name in the form of ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com***. You can find your custom domain name in the lab info of the hosting provider provided as **UPN Name**. If you are not able to locate this information, ask your instructor for help.
3. Select **Next**.
4. On the **Verify domain** page, write down the  **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** row. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value below:

  MS=_______________________

5. Switch to  **LON-DC1**.

6. From the Start menu, select  **Server Manager** if it is not open already. 

7. In the Server Manager window, select  **Tools**, and then click  **DNS**.

8. Expand  **LON-DC1**, and select  **Forward Lookup Zones**.

9. Right-click  **Forward Lookup Zones** and select **New Zone**.

10. On the  **New Zone Wizard** page, select **Next**.

11. On the  **Zone Type** page, verify that **Primary zone** is selected. Clear the **Store the zone in Active Directory** check box, and select **Next**.

12. On the  **Zone Name** page, type **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name provided by lab hosting provider,  and select **Next**.

13. On the  **Zone File** page, select **Next**.

14. On the  **Dynamic Update** page, ensure that **Do not allow dynamic updates** is selected, click **Next**, and then click  **Finish**. 

15. Expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, select and then right-click  **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, and then select  **Other New Records**.

16. Under  **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to  **Text (TXT)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

17. In the  **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

18. In the  **Text** field, enter **MS=msXXXXXXXX** - value that you recorded in Step 4.

19. Click  **OK** to create the record.

20. In the  **Resource Record type** dialog box, select **Done**.

21. Right-click  **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, and select  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

22. In the  **New Host** box, Under **Name**, type the name of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. If this name is not provided, leave the Name field blank.

23. Under  **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

24. Click  **Add Host**, click **OK** and then close the **New Host** dialog box.

    *Note: Following steps might not be required by all lab hosting providers. Check with your instructor if you need to create records in steps 25,26, and 27.*

25. Double-click the  **Start of Authority (SOA)** record and replace the **Primary Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider. 

26. Select **OK**.

27. Double-click the  **Name Server (NS)** record, and select **Edit**. Replace the **Server fully qualified domain name (FQDN)** name with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. Select **Resolve**, and then select **OK** twice.

28. Switch back to  **LON-CL1** and in the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the Verify domain page, click **Verify**. Wait until the domain is verified and then proceed to the next task.

#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1. On the **Choose your online services** page, verify that **Exchange** is selected and select **Skype for Business** then select **Next**.

2. On the  **Update DNS settings** page, review the DNS records that you should add to the domain. 

3. Use the same procedure from the previous task, to add MX, CNAME, SRV and TXT records for your custom domain, by using DNS on LON-DC1. Select your custom domain in DNS on LON-DC1, right click it and choose to create MX, CNAME, SRV or TXT records, based on values from Microsoft 365 admin center. If you are not sure how to do this, ask your instructor for help.

4. When you are done with adding records to DNS, switch to Microsoft 365 admin center and click **Verify**. Ensure that you get **Congratulations! Your domain and email addresses are all set up.** message.

5. Select  **Finish**. Ensure that you see **(Default)** after your custom domain name and that status is **Healthy**. If your custom domain name is not configured as default, perform steps 6 and 7. 

6. On the **Domains** page, click on your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

8. On the domain page, click **Set as default**. When you see the message **The domain is successfully set as default**, click **Close**.

   ***Note: By configuring your custom domain name as default domain, all users that you create in your Office 365 tenant will have sign in name and email address on your custom domain name. Only first global admin account that you created during tenant provisioning will still use Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com domain name.***

#### Task 4: Verify the health of services

1. In the navigation menu on the left and then expand **Health** and then click **Service health** to display the **Service health** dashboard.

2. In the right pane, view the status of the Office 365 services. If a service is showing a status other than  **Service is healthy**, then click the service or click  **advisory**.

3. Review any service interruption records and additional information on the  **Incidents** page.

>  **Note:** During Microsoft testing, on rare occasions Office 365 did not create the trial tenant properly. As a result, the tenant did not have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, create a new trial tenant by using a different business email address (a Microsoft account).

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Office 365 tenant account for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Office 365 services

#### Task 1: Review services and add-ins

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the left navigation menu, click **Show all** (if needed), expand  **Settings**, and then click  **Services &amp; add-ins**.
5. Click **Cortana**. Here you can enable or disable Cortana for all users in your organization. Close the Cortana pane.
6. Click  **Mail**, and then click  **Anti-malware policies**. The Exchange admin center opens in a new tab. Select your time zone and click **Save**. Review available setting and then close this tab.
8. Review the other available options, and then click  **Close**.
9. In Microsoft 365 admin center, on Services & add-ins page, click  **User owned apps and services**.
10. Verify that both options are selected. If not, select both options.
11. Click  **Save changes**, and then close the pane.



#### Task 2: Verify security and privacy settings

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the  **Settings** node, click **Security &amp; privacy**.

2. Adjacent to  **Password policy**, click  **Edit**.

3. On the  **Password policy** page, turn off the option **Set user passwords to never expire** and then in the **Days before passwords expire** box, type **42**, and then click  **Save**.

4. Click  **Close**.

5. Adjacent to  **Customer Lockbox**, click  **Edit**.

6. Review the settings, and then click  **Close**.



#### Task 3: Determine current licenses

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the navigation pane, expand  **Billing**, and then click  **Licenses**.

2. Review the available licenses for the Office 365 Enterprise E5 subscription.

3. Click  **Products & services**, and then review the Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription.



#### Task 4: Update the organization profile

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the navigation pane, expand  **Settings**, and then click  **Organization profile**.

2. Review the settings. Click  **Edit** next to the **Release preferences**.

3. Review the settings, and then click  **Cancel**.

4. Click  **Edit** next to the **Manage custom themes for your organization**.

5. Review the settings, and then close the window.

6. Review the other settings, click  **Save**, and then click  **Close**.

11. Close all windows on  **LON-CL1**, and then sign out.



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully verified the configuration of your Office 365 tenant.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
