# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Administering and troubleshooting Skype for Business and Teams
# Lab: Administering Skype for Business Online and Teams

## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online and Teams organization settings

#### Task 1: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688).

2. On the  **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** page, click **Download**, click  **Save**, and then click  **Run**.

3. Select the  **I agree to the license terms and conditions** check box, and then click **Install**.

4. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

5. Click  **Close** on **Setup Successful** window, when installation is done. If prompted to restart again, do it.

6. After your computer restarts, sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.



#### Task 2: Connect to Skype for Business by using Windows PowerShell

1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the desktop, right-click  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.

2. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$msolcred = Get-Credential
```

4. In the  **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, enter the user name **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, and Holly's password, and then click  **OK**.

5. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $msolcred
```

>  **Note:** If you receive an error, repeat the previous task by downloading and installing the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell module. You do not need to restart. Then, start this task from step 1.

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Import-PSSession $SfBSession
```



#### Task 3: Configure settings for Skype for Business Online and Teams

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Windows PowerShell command-line interface window, type the following command to enable the privacy mode, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $true
```

Note the warning that you receive about enabling client version checking.

2. To disable push notifications for Apple devices, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $false
```

3. To verify the privacy notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration
```

You should see the following output:

  - Identity:  **Global**

  - EnablePrivacyMode:  **True**

  - AutoInitiateContacts:  **True**

  - PublishLocationDataDefault:  **True**

  - DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault:  **True**

4. To verify the push notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration
```

5. To allow users to communicate with public Skype users, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowPublicUsers $true
```

6. To allow users to communicate with federated partners, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowFederatedUsers $true
```

7. To enable communication with all federated partners except for  **litware.com**, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

```
$AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
$BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
```

8. To verify the external communication changes, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
```

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
10. If needed, sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.
11. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Admin** tile.
12. In the  **Microsoft Microsoft 365 admin center**, on the navigation menu to the left, navigate to  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Teams**. New admin center for both Teams and Skype will open.
13. In the left navigation menu, click **Legacy portal**. Skype admin center will open in the new tab.
14. On the left-hand side in Skype admin center, click  **organization**.
15. On the  **general** page, under **presence privacy mode**, verify that the setting is configured as  **Display presence information only to a user's contacts**.
16. Under  **mobile phone notifications**, verify that  **Apple Push Notification Service** is not enabled, and then click **external communications**.
17. Under  **external access**, verify that  **On except for blocked domains** is selected.
18. Verify that  **under blocked or allowed domains**,  **litware.com** is listed.
19. Switch to the tab where Microsoft Teams admin center is open. Expand **Org-wide settings** menu.
20. Click on **External access**. Review settings in the right pane. Ensure that litware.com is listed as blocked domain.
21. Click on Teams upgrade. In the Coexistence mode list, select **Islands** and then click **Save**.
22. Expand **Meetings** and then click on **Meeting policies**. In the right menu, click **New policy**.
23. In the Title line, type **Adatum Teams meeting policy**.
24. In the **Audio & video** section, enable **Allow transcription**.
25. In the **Content sharing** section, in the **Screen sharing mode** list, select **Single application**.
26. Enable the option **Allow an external participant to give or request control**.
27. Click **Save**.



#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams and Skype

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Microsoft Teams admin center**, expand  **Meetings**, and then click  **Meeting settings**.
2. In the  **Help URL** text box, type **http://helpteams.Adatum.com**.
3. In the  **Footer text** text box, type **Sample legal disclaimer for Teams**. Click  **Preview invite**. In the Email invite preview window, ensure that disclaimer text is shown and that Help link is connected to help.Adatum.com. Click **Save**.
4. Switch to the tab where Skype admin center is open. Click **online meetings** and then on the **meeting invitation** tab set the values for Skype as you set for Teams in steps 2 and 3 (URL should be http://helpskype.Adatum.com and Sample legal disclaimer for Skype). Click **save**.
5. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-CsMeetingConfiguration
```

5. Verify that the  **Help URL** and **CustomFooterText** display the correct information.

6. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Remove-PSSession $SfBSession
```



#### Task 5: Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Skype and Teams

1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge and navigate to https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads.
2. Click **Download Teams** in Windows section on Desktop Apps page. Click **Save**, and then click **Run**.
3. In the Login to Microsoft Teams window, click **Sign in with another account** and then sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, with password that you set for Holly's account. Click **Sign in**.
4. Close **Bring your team together** window, if it appears. Close the **Get the Teams mobile app** window, if it appears.
5. In Teams window, click **Teams** and **Create team**.
6. In the Create your team window, click **Build a team from scratch**.
7. In the What kind of team will this be?, click **Org-wide**.
8. In the Some quick details about your org-wide team, type **Adatum General** for Team name. Click **Create**. After team is created, minimize Teams window.
9. On  **LON-CL1**, click  **Start**, scroll down, and then click  **Skype for Business 2016**.
10. On the  **First things first** page, click **Ask me later**, and click  **Accept**.
9. In the  **Welcome - Skype for Business** window, click **Skip for now**.
10. In the  **Microsoft Office Activation Wizard** dialog box, click **Close**.
11. In the  **Skype for Business** window, in the **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, and then click  **Sign In**.
12. In the  **password** text box, type Holly's password, and then click  **Sign in**. Click  **Yes**.
13. Click  **Start**, scroll down, and then click  **Outlook 2016**. If Holly's account is not configured in Outlook, perform steps 14-16. If it is configured, you can skip to step 17.
14. In the Welcome to Outlook 2016 window, click **Next**.
15. On the Add an Email Account page, click **Yes**, and click **Next**.
16. On the Auto Account Setup page, type **Holly** in Your Name box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** in E-mail Address box, and type Holly's password in Password boxes. Click **Next** and then click **Finish**. Close Outlook.
17. In the taskbar, find **Teams** icon, right click it and select **Quit**. After Teams quit, run it again by double clicking icon on the desktop. When Teams run, accept to connect Teams to Office apps.
18. Start **Outlook 2016** again. Click **File** menu, click **Options** and click **Add-Ins**. Click **Go...** at the bottom of the window.
19. In the COM Add-ins window, ensure that **Skype Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office 2016** and **Microsoft Teams Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office 2016** are both selected. If they are not, select both and click **OK**.
20. In Outlook window, click **Calendar** icon. Ensure that on the toolbar, you see both Skype and Teams icons. This confirms that Outlook is now integrated with both platforms.
21. On the ribbon, click  **New Items**,  and then click  **Skype Meeting**.
22. In the  **To** text box, type **Ada**. Click  **Check Names** icon on the toolbar and then select Ada Russell.
23. Create a meeting request for a time tomorrow using the subject  **Test Skype Meeting**.
24. Send the meeting request.
25. Open the calendar, and then double-click the meeting that you just created. Verify that the meeting contains the custom footer text and that the help link references http://help.Adatum.com.
26. On the ribbon, click  **New Items**,  and then click  **Teams Meeting**.
27. In the  **To** text box, type **Ada**. Click  **Check Names** icon on the toolbar and then select Ada Russell.
28. Create a meeting request for a time tomorrow using the subject  **Test Teams Meeting**.
29. Send the meeting request.
30. Open the calendar, and then double-click the meeting that you just created. Ensure that there is a link for Teams meeting.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online and Teams service settings.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings

#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**.

2. On the navigation menu, expand  **Users**, and then click  **Active users**. Select  **Ada Russel**, and then click  **Edit** in the **Product licenses** section.

3. Ensure that  **Skype for Business Online (Plan 2)**, and **Microsoft Teams**  are enabled. Click  **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.

4. On the navigation menu, select  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Teams**.

5. In the Microsoft Teams admin center, on the navigation menu, click  **Users**.

6. Verify that  **Ada Russel** is listed as a Teams user. Click on **Ada Russel** and explore available settings. In the **Assigned policies** section, click **Edit**.

7. In the Meeting policy list, select **Adatum Teams policy**. Click **Save**. Don't close the Microsoft Teams admin center.

8. Click **Legacy portal**.

9. In Skype for Business admin center, select  **Ada Russell**, and then click  **Edit**.

10. On the  **general** tab, under **Audio and video**, clear the  **Record conversations and meetings **check box.

11. On the navigation menu, click  **external communications**, clear the  **External Skype users** check box, and then click  **save**.

12. Click the  **back** icon, select **Francisco Chaves**, and then click  **Edit**.

13. On the  **general** tab, under **Audio and video**, select  **Audio only** from the drop-down list box. Click **save**.


#### Task 2: Configure settings for a team

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, switch to tab where Microsoft Teams admin center is open.

2. In the left navigation menu, click **Teams**.

3. Click on **Adatum General**.

4. In the **Adatum General** pane, ensure that you see all users listed as members.

5. Click **Channels** and then click **Add Channel**.

6. In the Add channel pane, type **Adatum Project A** in the **Channel name** box and click **Save**.

7. Click **Edit** in the top right corner.

8. Expand **Conversation** in **Edit team** pane, and disable the option **Team members can delete sent messages**. Click **Save**.

9. Switch to Teams app on LON-CL1. Ensure that you see **Adatum Project A** as a new channel, beside **General**.

10. Leave **Teams** application open.


#### Task 3: Verify Skype for Business and Teams communications
  >  **Note:** If you are prompted to reconfigure a firewall rule, do so. Authenticate with the **User Account Control** prompt as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

1. On  **LON-CL2**, ensure that you are signed in as **Adatum\Ada**.
2. Open Microsoft Edge and navigate to https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads.
3. Click **Download (32-bit)** in Windows section on Desktop Apps page. Click **Save**, and then click **Run**.
4. In the Login to Microsoft Teams window, click **Sign in with another account** and then sign in as **Ada@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, with password for Ada's account. Click **Sign in**.
5. Close **Bring your team together** window, if it appears.
6. In the Teams window, click Chat in the left navigation pane. In the user list, click **Holly Spencer** and then in the right pane, write a message to Holly.
7. Switch to LON-CL1. In Teams app, click on **Chat** and ensure that you get message from **Ada**.
8. In the Chat window in Teams on LON-CL1, click the sharing icon (that is third icon in the top right corner). Review available options for sharing - you should see **Desktop** and **Window** options. You can also see option to share an app if you have any application open.
9. Switch to LON-CL2. Click the same sharing icon in Teams app. Ensure that you see only **Window** option. This is because you applied custom Teams policy to Ada Russell account.
10. In the Teams app window, click **Teams** in the left navigation pane. Click **Adatum Project A** in the middle pane.
11. In the **Adatum General > Adatum Project A** window, click **+** icon. In the **Add a tab** window, click on **OneNote**. In the OneNote window, click **Adatum General Notebook** and click **Save**.
12. Ensure that OneNote book is added to Adatum Project A channel.
13. On LON-CL2, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
14. Sign in as  **Ada@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Ada's password.
15. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Calendar** tile.
16. Select the local time zone and then click  **Save**.
17. In Calendar, click the meeting scheduled for tomorrow, click  **Accept**, and then click  **Send the response now**.
18. Click the meeting once more, and then click  **Holly Spencer**.
19. In the pane on the right, click the link for Holly's instant message address (the speech bubble symbol).
20. In the  **Holly Spencer - Microsoft Edge** dialog box, in the text box, type **Hello** and press Enter.
21. On  **LON-CL1**, click the  **Ada Russell** pop up window on the taskbar.
22. Type a message, and then press Enter.
23. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that the IM from Holly is received.
24. In Calendar, click the scheduled meeting, and then click  **Join**.
25. In the  **How would you like to join your meeting** dialog box, click **Install and join with Skype Meetings App (web)**.
26. Click  **Save** and when prompted, click **Run**.
27. After the app is installed, in Microsoft Edge, click  **Join the meeting**.
28. At the Welcome page, click Sign in if you have an Office 365 account.
29. Sign in as  **Ada@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** by using Ada's password.
30. In the  **Choose meeting audio** dialog box, click **Phone: I will dial in** and then click **Connect**.
31. On  **LON-CL1**, open the scheduled meeting and click  **Join Skype Meeting**.
32. In the  **Join Meeting Audio** dialog box, click **OK**.
33. Verify that Holly is connected to the meeting, and then in the meeting window, click the  **Present** icon, and then click **Present Desktop**.
34. In the  **Present Desktop** window, click **Present**. In the Windows Security Alert window, click  **Allow access**.
35. In the Skype for Business window, click  **OK**.
36. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that Holly's desktop is visible in the meeting window.
37. On  **LON-CL1**, click  **Stop Presenting** in the toolbar.
38. On  **LON-CL2**, close Microsoft Edge and sign out.
39. On  **LON-CL1**, disconnect from the meeting, and sign out.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online and Teams user settings and validated Skype for Business Online and Teams functionality.


## Exercise 3: Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online

#### Task 1: Run the Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators tool

1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).
3. If needed, sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.
4. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Admin** tile.
5. In the  **Microsoft Microsoft 365 admin center**, on the navigation menu, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Teams**. 
6. In the admin portal, click **Legacy portal**.
7. In the  **Skype for Business admin center**, in the navigation pane, click  **tools**.
8. In the details pane, click  **Troubleshooting Skype for Business Online sign-in for administrators**.
9. Scroll down the webpage, and under the  **Number of users affected** heading, click **One user, or a few here and there**.
10. Under the  **Access to Office 365 on the web** heading, click **Yes**.
11. Under the  **Valid Lync user** heading, review the suggestion to verify the user's license options, and then click **Yes**.



#### Task 2: Run the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, in the  **Skype for Business admin center**, in the  **tools** node, click **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer**.

2. On the  **Remote Connectivity Analyzer** webpage, under the **Select the test you want to run** heading, click the **SfB / Lync** tab.

3. Click  **Skype for Business Autodiscover Web Service**, and then click  **Next**.

4. On the  **Skype for Business Autodiscover Web Service** page, in the **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number.

5. In the text box beneath the  **Verification** heading, enter the displayed code, click **Verify**, and then click  **Perform Test**.

6. The connectivity test fails. Expand out each node in the report. What is the cause of the failure?
The SSL certificate failed one or more certificate validation checks.



#### Task 3: Access the Office 365 Lync Domain Name System Connectivity Test

1. Open a new tab in Microsoft Edge and navigate to  [**https://www.testconnectivity.microsoft.com/?testid=o365lyncdns**](https://www.testconnectivity.microsoft.com/?testid=o365lyncdns).

2. On the  **Remote Connectivity Analyzer** webpage, under the **Office 365 Lync Domain Name Server Connectivity Test** heading, click **Office 365**.

3. In the  **Sign-in address** text box, type **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, and then click  **Perform Test**.

4. Expand each node in the report. What records were checked? 

- SRV records
   + \_sip.\_tls.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com
   + \_sipfederationtls.\_tcp.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com

- CNAME records
   + sip.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com
   + lyncdiscover.Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com

5. Close all open windows.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully tested client sign-in and Skype for Business Online configuration.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  